Let's go on to the basics here.
So, here we put in this p-0, this m-0, and
this was a nice way of
just doing padding 0 and
margin 0, but let's just go ahead and
see what it'll look like
if i put m-24 in here.
So, if I go back here to
the Adopt Me page, not that one.
Refresh the page here,
except mine is not running, so
I have to get it back running again,
npm run dev.
Refresh the page here,
notice I push everything in a lot, right?
So if I go look at this body and
root and this one right here,
notice that there is a margin of 6 rem,
which is a lot.
You might not be familiar
with the rem measurement,
it's root so there's a thing called ems.
I imagine many of you have
probably seen ems before, right?
Ems actually scale with your font size,
right,
cuz it's the size of a literal m,
right, like an m on the page.
You also might not be aware,
but there's also an x.
So the m is the width of an m, and the x
is the height of an x, a lowercase x.
Sometimes it's useful too,
I've never had to disambiguate the two But
the nice thing about ems versus rem,
sorry,
the nice thing about rems versus
ems is it does change with type.
So if I have a smaller type
in a smaller component,
that will make that measurement smaller,
which can be not what you expect.
When you put in a root rem,
it's the root of your entire page.
It measures that end, so
it actually doesn't change with the type
scale the various different components.
It's kind of a subtle difference, but
I would say nine times out of ten when
you're using ems as a measurement,
you probably want root ems.
Only when you specifically do you
want it to scale the type scale,
then you want ems.
And not that it really matters anyway,
all of the measurements in Tailwind
are all done with rems anyway.
So I just wanted you to be aware
of what you're looking at.
Cool, so let's take away that 24,
let's go back to 0 cuz that's
really what we expected.
There we go.
So, now let's go with something a little
bit more intense with how Tailwind works.
We're gonna make a nice header that
has a really fun gradient on it.
So let's do this.
We're gonna have a class name here, and
we're gonna put a lot of stuff in here.
Width (full), so they have the same
thing here, width 0, width 10.
So if we did width 24,
we just saw that that's 6 rems across, but
I want it to go all
the way across the page.
So you can do width (full),
that's gonna be width 100%.
Margin bottom mb, so
margin 10 would be on every side.
If I just want to do bottom,
its margin bottom 10.
Text, I want that to center,
so text center.
Let's give it a bit of padding p7,
seemed like it worked pretty well, and
then we're gonna do a gradient, right?
So we wanna have this really
cool looking gradient.
So we're gonna say background gradient,
and
we want it to go from top to bottom,
so to-b.
If we want it to go to top,
to-t, or to-l to go left,
to-r to go right, but in this case,
we want it to go to bottom, okay?
We're gonna go from, so
this is the gradient now,
starting from purple, and
we want to purple of intensity 400.
So the intensity of these colors range
from 100, which is almost white,
to 900, which is almost black, and
400 is somewhere in the middle.
And then we're gonna go
from there to red 500,
so that will go from purple to red, right?
What if you wanna have like
a color stop along the way?
You can also do via-pink-500, and
I'll show you what these look
like when we're in there.
And then we also wanna have, well, let's
take a look what this looks like first.
So, save all of that.
And now look at this, we have this really
interesting gradient that we
made without writing any CSS.
Pretty cool, right?
On one hand, we wrote a lot of classes,
so it feels kinda strange, but
at the same time,
you created a gradient without any CSS.
So, I hope what you can see here is,
if you get pretty familiar with all
the nomenclature on this, and you start
figuring out these kind of class names,
you can start flying by just
reading all these class names and
never having to hop over into the CSS.
So what happens if I take this via-pink
out, I wanted to show you that.
So I take that out, and
now notice that color stuff in the middle
just goes from straight to purple to red.
And if I put that pink back in,
we get this kinda nice little pink inner
stop layer in there, looks really cool.
So let's go make this Adopt Me
text look a little bit bigger.
So let's go into our link class here,
and if you give it a class name,
it will apply that to the anchor tag for
us.
So let's make that text
significantly better.
So let's make it 6 XL.
So another thing that you'll find there,
small SM,
medium which is MD, large which is LG,
I think, I'd have to go look.
I think large is LG.
Then there's XL, 2 XL, 3 XL,
4 XL, 5 XL, and I think 6 XL.
I think it goes all the way up to 9 XL,
I'd have to go look, up to 9 XL, yep.
So we're gonna do 6 XL,
which makes it about that big, right?
And then here, we're gonna say text-white,
that'll look better against that backdrop.
Okay, so, looking a bit better.
You might think this
is pretty bad looking.
I was like, well,
you can blame my design skills,
but I'm trying to teach you the CSS,
not the design portion.
Go take Sarah's class if you
wanna learn the design skills,
cuz she's 1,000 times
better at that than I am.
Okay, and what if we wanted a nice hover
states to show people this is a link,
cuz right now it doesn't do
anything when I hover over it.
We can do a hover : text-gray-200.
So this hover colon is what makes it so
we're able to put these kind of
pseudo states on them, right?
So now if you mouse over it,
you get a nice little gray, so
people can say, okay, I can click on that.
And there you go, we just did a whole
kinda header without touching any CSS,
but just with classes.
Does any one have any
questions about that?
>> So let's say I don't wanna have,
let's say, the padding and
the margin in rem, is there any
way I can change it back to pixel?
>> I don't think so, it's pretty
opinionated of how you do these things.
You'd have to go check,
to be honest with you.
There are some things you can do, I think
you can move over things by one pixel,
by doing something like, I don't know.
Let's do margin top-px, and
I think if we now look at
this in inspect element,
Did I put it on there?
Yeah, it puts a margin top of one pixel,
right?
So if you wanna move something
down just a little bit,
there's a couple of
utility classes like that.
But they're trying to enforce on you,
which is in general a good practice
when doing CSS and design stuff.
They having a spacing system or a rhythm,
its the terms that I
hear a lot of people use.
And so they're trying to say, I want one
unit, two units, four units, 16 units, and
they're proportional, right?
And so that kind of helps enforce that.
I think that's the idea there.
And so, if you're hard over, like I
really wanna be able to control that I
can do 177 pixels exactly, Tailwinds
probably just not the answer for you.
Or you can go on there and literally
put style equals width of 177 pixels,
and you can kinda break out of it
temporarily for very specific things.
>> If you hover the parent, let's say,
I want something to happen to one
of its children,
is that something possible with Tailwind?
>> So, I have over this and
it makes the child go pink?
>> Exactly, change color.
>> It's a good question,
cuz you could just do a child
selector at that point with the CSS.
I don't know how to do it,
to be honest with you.
My inclination is to say that
it's not possible, and so
something that's specific.
What you can do is you can just head
back over to the style.CSS here,
you could say like,
let's actually just do it.
So if I do header a, and
then there's an extends command here.
So you can actually continue using
the class names from Tailwind, and
I'd have to go look at how you do it,
cuz I don't remember off the top my head.
But basically you can say
something like Tailwind extends or
something like that,
then you can just say margin bottom 10.
And you can actually use those class names
inside of this and the preprocessor will
catch it, and then you can continue using
the same kinda system just with CSS if you
have advanced needs there, and
I think that's the purpose of that.
That if you need to use those kind of
advanced selectors, that's available too.
>> For the gradient,
you used pink and purple,
what if we had custom colors for
our theme,
like some random hex color that
we wanna use throughout the site,
throughout the app, how would we do that?
>> That's a great question.
Let's just go take a look here
at the Tailwind CSS docs.
You can basically create your own
theme that has its own names.
So we're just gonna be using all
of the colors now for example.
But if you go in here to the colors on the
docs, here's all of their default colors.
Honestly, they're pretty
nice looking colors, but
here in your Tailwind config, you can
actually update your theme to like okay,
I want white to actually be fefefe, right?
And I want red to be this
other color of red, and
you can see here they're changing
color to rose instead of red.
So you can actually make your own theme
with your own names, and things like that,
and Tailwind CSS can handle you
creating your own theme for everything.
And this is true of everything,
we're gonna be looking at break points and
variants and spacing, those kinda things.
You can actually go and define what
Tailwind makes those things, right?
They provide you a very,
very good starting point,
and I suggest using it to start with,
cuz like I said,
it's been looked at by high
quality professional designers.
But when you like start using it for
your site and you have,
this is the Netflix red and
the Netflix black, and you have to have
these specific hex numbers,
you can go modify those on the fly.
It doesn't have to be red,
you can call it brand red, right?
And you can customize
what those names are.